add doc explaining locations (#1050)
heptio/ark: docs/locations.md

# Backup Storage Locations and Volume Snapshot Locations

Ark v0.10 introduces a new way of configuring where Ark backups and their associated persistent volume snapshots are stored.

## Motivations

> In Ark prior to v0.10, the configuration for where to store backups & volume snapshots was stored in a `Config` custom resource. The `backupStorageProvider` section captured the place where all Ark backups should be stored. This was defined by a **provider** (e.g. `aws`, `azure`, `gcp`, `minio`, etc.), a **bucket**, and possibly some additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`). Similarly, the `persistentVolumeProvider` section captured the place where all persistent volume snapshots taken as part of Ark backups should be stored, and was defined by a **provider** and additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`).

Reviewer: I agree with @wwitzel3 on the tense. Because that version is not deprecated, it would sound more natural to talk about it in the present term because it is still in use.

Additionally, since multiple `VolumeSnapshotLocations` can be created, the user can now configure locations for more than one volume provider, and if the cluster has volumes from multiple providers (e.g. AWS EBS and Portworx), all of them can be snapshotted in a single Ark backup.

## Limitations / Caveats

- For volume snapshots, you are still limited by where your provider allows you to create snapshots. For example, AWS and Azure do not allow you to create a volume snapshot in a different region than where the volume is. If you try to take an Ark backup using a volume snapshot location with a different region than where your cluster's volumes are, the backup will fail.

- Each Ark backup has one `BackupStorageLocation`, and one `VolumeSnapshotLocation` per volume provider. It is not possible (yet) to send a single Ark backup to multiple backup storage locations simultaneously, and similarly for volume snapshots. However, you can always set up multiple scheduled backups that differ only in the storage locations used if redundancy of backups across locations is important.

> - Cross-provider snapshots are not supported. If you have a cluster with more than one type of volume (e.g. EBS and Portworx), but you only have a `VolumeSnapshotLocation` configured for EBS, then Ark will **only** snapshot the EBS volumes.

Reviewer 2: Trying to clear up a bit to my current understanding (which may be off) which is that you can have a backup span multiple VSLs, they are just constrained by the volume's underlying provider.

```suggestion
- Cross-provider snapshots are not supported. If you have a cluster with more than one type of volume then Ark will **only** snapshot the volumes for their underlying provider. As an example, if we had a cluster with Portworx and EBS volumes, and a `VolumeStorageLocation` defined for each provider, the EBS volumes would only be snapshot by the EBS `VolumeStorageLocation` and the Portworx would only be snapshot by the Portworx `VolumeStorageLocation`.
```

    --provider aws \
    --bucket ark-backups \
    --config region=us-east-1

ark backup-location create s3-alt-region \
    --provider aws \
    --bucket ark-backups-alt \
    --config region=us-west-1
```

During backup creation:
```shell
# The Ark server will automatically store backups in the backup storage location named "default" if
# one is not specified when creating the backup. You can alter which backup storage location is used
# by default by setting the --default-backup-storage-location flag on the `ark server` command (run
# by the Ark deployment) to the name of a different backup storage location.
ark backup create full-cluster-backup
```
Or:
```shell
ark backup create full-cluster-alternate-location-backup \
    --storage-location s3-alt-region
```

#### For volume providers that support it (e.g. Portworx), have some snapshots be stored locally on the cluster and have others be stored in the cloud

During server configuration:

```shell
ark snapshot-location create portworx-local \
    --provider portworx \
    --config type=local

ark snapshot-location create portworx-cloud \
    --provider portworx \
    --config type=cloud
```

During backup creation:

```shell

> # Note that since in this example we have two possible volume snapshot locations for the Portworx 

Reviewer 2: Is it worth calling out anywhere that the server also has some additional flags now to indicate which of these  VSL (provider/location tuple) should be the default?

# Backup Storage Locations and Volume Snapshot Locations

Ark v0.10 introduces a new way of configuring where Ark backups and their associated persistent volume snapshots are stored.

## Motivations

> In Ark versions prior to v0.10, the configuration for where to store backups & volume snapshots is stored in a `Config` custom resource. The `backupStorageProvider` section captures the place where all Ark backups should be stored. This is defined by a **provider** (e.g. `aws`, `azure`, `gcp`, `minio`, etc.), a **bucket**, and possibly some additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`). Similarly, the `persistentVolumeProvider` section captures the place where all persistent volume snapshots taken as part of Ark backups should be stored, and is defined by a **provider** and additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Ark versions prior to v0.10, the configuration for where to store backups & volume snapshots is specified in a `Config` custom resource. The `backupStorageProvider` section captures the place where all Ark backups should be stored. This is defined by a **provider** (e.g. `aws`, `azure`, `gcp`, `minio`, etc.), a **bucket**, and possibly some additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`). Similarly, the `persistentVolumeProvider` section captures the place where all persistent volume snapshots taken as part of Ark backups should be stored, and is defined by a **provider** and additional provider-specific settings (e.g. `region`).
```

Reviewer: Super minor change just to avoid repeating the concept of "storage" and perhaps avoid confusion.

Author: thanks, updated!
